---
layout: post
title:  "Week 6 Progress Report"
date:   2017-07-07
---

<!--excerpt-->

This week on the story generation side of the project, Vera finished the action decision process graph:
the graph includes questions (decision points for the character), actions
as transitions, automatic transitions, question answer transitions, and situation
nodes representing pre and post conditions for actions. We presented this as
our prototype for how our stories will work logically to Dr. Knauf and Dr. Jantke. With this complete,
we'll finally be able to start traversing the graph to generate simple stories.

This week, I finished world state
initialization. It now includes all characters with their relationships,
locations, starting items, and goals. We were able to show our first system
prototype to Dr. Jantke and Dr. Knauf by showing them the output of the
state initialization process.

For text generation, Andres finalized templates for story introductions and
polished the sentence generation methods. Andres implemented the first use of the output generated by story generation
in the text generation portion of the project by using world state initialization
output in his introduction templates.

Lucas fixed several of the bugs that popped up in the world state initialization
process by thoroughly validating all of the database input files. At the suggestion
of Dr. Jantke and Dr. Knauf, he investigated use of WordNet to provide vocabulary
variation by looking up synonyms and antonyms for words. Since some of the sentences
being generated were somewhat strange (incorrect output of verbs in past-tense, etc.), Lucas
implemented using a larger, 500,000-word SimpleNLG lexicon to replace the default
5,000-word lexicon.
